Source of the Datase: https://physionet.org/content/mimic-iv-fhir-demo/2.0/

Patient and Organization Resources
Organization
The Organization resource records any institutions or organization associated with healthcare services.

A single Organization resource was created for all of MIMIC-IV. The Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center is the primary
Organization that all patients reference back to.

Location
The Location resource records any physical location where services are delivered in relation to the hospital.

Each careunit found in transfers was translated into a Location resource. In total, there are 41 Location resources
created from the careunits. These Location resources are then referenced in the main Encounter.location element.

Patient
The Patient resource records the demographic information for a patient associated with an organization.

The patients table joined with the admissions and transfers tables mapped to the MIMIC_Patient profile. Several
assumptions were made to assist in the mapping to the Patient resource. First, the birthdate was calculated since only
an anchor_age is given for patients. The transfers.intime column was used as a base for the birthdate calculation versus
using the admissions.admittime since the admittime column is not always present. Second, the birthsex extension element
pulls in gender since there is no distinction in MIMIC-IV. Finally, the Patient name element is derived from the
subject_id column in the form of “Patient_<subject_id>”.

Encounter
The Encounter resource records the full span of a hospital stay, including admission, stay, and discharge. Inpatient and
outpatient encounters can be stored in the resource, but for use with MIMIC-IV only inpatient encounters are stored.
The three Encounter profiles are based on the US Core Encounter profile.

The admissions table is mapped to the MIMIC_Encounter profile. MIMIC_Encounter contains custom terminology bindings for
admission class, admission type, admission source and discharge disposition. The primary information mapped from
admissions was the admission start and stop time along with the context for the admission. Additional information is
supplied for the encounter from transfers in the form of Location resources. The Location resources track the movement
of the patient throughout their Encounter.

The icustays table is mapped to the profile MIMIC_Encounter_ICU. MIMIC_Encounter_ICU contains terminology bindings for
only the admission type, as icustays does not contain the same detail as admissions. The primary information mapped
from icustays was the timing of the stay and the type of encounter.

Measurement Resources
ObservationLabevents
A standard way to map lab Observations was created by US Core with their profile USCoreLaboratoryResultObservationProfile.
The US core profile was used as the basis for the mimic profile MIMIC_Observation_Labevents. MIMIC_Observation_Labevents
contains terminology bindings for code and interpretation plus an extension for labs priority. The labevents table as
mapped to MIMIC_Observation_Labevents, primarily capturing the item code, resulting value, interpretation, and timing for labs.

ObservationMicro
The microbiology observations are too complex to map into a single resource, so the results must be broken into three:
test, organism, and susceptibility result. Thus three Observation profiles were generated: MIMIC_Observation_Micro_Test,
MIMIC_Observation_Micro_Org, and MIMIC_Observation_Micro_Susc. These profiles were based on the US Core Laboratory Result
Observation Profile.

MIMIC_Observation_Micro_Test captures the test information from microbiologyevents. Test codes, timing and comments are
mapped into the profile. Additionally, references to the associated MIMIC_Observation_Micro_Org resources are created.
There are a significant number of tests with no reference to an organism, and these tests are stored with their result
pulled from the comments.

MIMIC_Observation_Micro_Org captures the organism information from microbiologyevents. Organism codes and names are
mapped into the profile. Additionally, references to the child MIMIC_Observation_Micro_Susc resources and parent
 MIMIC_Observation_Micro_Test resources are created.

MIMIC_Observation_Micro_Susc captures the susceptibility results from microbiologyevents. Antibiotic codes, timing, and
interpretation are mapped into the profile. Additionally, references to parent MIMIC_Observation_Micro_Org resources are
created. An extension was also added to MIMIC_Observation_Micro_Susc to house the dilution values for susceptibility testing.

Specimen
The Specimen resource records information about a material sample. The Specimen profiles are based on the base Specimen resource.

The MIMIC_Specimen_Lab profile houses the information about the laboratory specimen. A terminology binding was added to
the profile for the type of fluid. The labevents table is used as the source for lab specimen. The primary information
mapped to the profile is the specimen identifier and the fluid type.

The MIMIC_Specimen_Micro profile houses the information about the microbiology specimen. A terminology binding was added
 to the profile for the type of fluid. The microbiologyevents table is used as the source for microbiology specimen.
 The primary information mapped to the profile is the specimen identifier and the specimen type.

Medication Resources
Medication
The Medication resource records medications and drugs available in healthcare settings. The resource can store
information on individual drugs or a combination of drugs from a prescription.

MIMIC does not have one data table for medications so distinct medications resources were generated from seven sources.

Formulary drug codes are pulled from prescriptions and emar_detail.product_code

National Drug Codes (NDC) are pulled in from prescriptions

Generic Sequence Numbers (GSN) are pulled in from prescriptions

Generic medication names are pulled from prescriptions.drug, pharmacy.medication, and emar.medication

IV specific events were pulled from poe.order_type when order_type is set to IV therapy or TPN.

ICU medication are pulled from  d_items with linksto=’inputevents’

Medication mixes were pulled from prescriptions. Medication mixes are grouped medication with the same pharmacy_id.
The medication mix will reference each medication as ingredients. Medication mixes are included since only one Medication
reference is allowed for MedicationRequest even though multiple medication can be requested together.

The medication sources are mapped to MIMIC_Medication. MIMIC_Medication contains terminology bindings for the medication
code. The medication code binds to a ValueSet that is a combination of the seven medication CodeSystems.

MedicationAdministration
The MedicationAdminstration resource records any administration of medication in a healthcare setting. The two main MIMIC
documented sources for administration come from emar and inputevents. Each of these tables were mapped to a custom profile
derived from the base R4 fhir profiles.

Emar and emar_detail are mapped to MIMIC_Medication_Administration profile. MIMIC_MedicationAdministration contains
terminology bindings for medication site, medication method, and medication route. The primary information is pulled
from each row in emar_detail, with emar supplying the medication reference only when it is not available in emar_detail.product_code.

The inputevents table was mapped to MIMIC_Medication_Administration_ICU. MIMIC_Medication_Administration_ICU contains
terminology bindings for category ICU and medication method ICU. The ICU medication administration resources will be
smaller than emar medication administrations since less detailed information is available in MIMIC.

MedicationDispense
The MedicationDispense resource records the supply of medication to a patient. The main system that dispenses medication
is the pharmacy.

The pharmacy table was mapped to MIMIC_Medication_Dispense. MIMIC_Medication_Dispense contains terminology bindings for
medication route and medication frequency. The MedicationDispense is linked back to MedicationRequest through the element
authorizingPrescription.

MedicationRequest
The MedicationRequest resource records orders for medication and the administration instructions for the medication.
The resource only accepts a single Medication resource, which means the majority of referenced medication will be
medication mixes coming from prescriptions. There were two sources for MedicationRequest: prescriptions and poe.

The prescriptions table was mapped to MIMIC_Medication_Request. MIMIC_Medication_Request contains terminology bindings
for medication route and medication frequency. The prescriptions  table is supplemented by pharmacy to fill dosage information.

The poe table maps orders to MIMIC_MedicationRequest when emar events do not have a related pharmacy_id. This scenario
is typically for IV or TPN events occurring in the hospital when a direct prescription may not have been written but the medication was ordered.

Charted Data Resources
Observations in the ICU
The Observation resource records any measurements made about a patient. The chartevents, datetimeevents, and outputevents
tables are all measurement tables for ICU events. Each table maps to a mimic Observation profile, based on the base Observation
resource. The mimic profiles are of a similar format but with different terminology bindings based on the source table.

The chartevents table is mapped to the MIMIC_Observation_Chartevents profile. MIMIC_Observation_Chartevents enforces
terminology bindings for the observation code and category. Chartevents captures the majority of documented information
from the ICU, thus the primary information mapped was the timing, item code and the result of the item. Additional columns
were mapped to capture reference ranges and observation category.

The datetimeevents table is mapped to the MIMIC_Observation_Datetimeevents profile. MIMIC_Observation_Datetimeevents
enforces terminology bindings for observation code and category. Datetimeevents documents any information that is a
datetime format, thus the primary information mapped were the datetime value and the item code.

The outputevents table is mapped to the MIMIC_Observation_Outputevents profile. MIMIC_Observation_Outputevents enforces
 terminology bindings for observation code and category. Outputevents holds information on the patients’ bodily outputs,
  thus the primary information mapped were item codes for these events and the resulting value.

Procedures in the ICU
The procedureevents table is mapped to the MIMIC_Procedure_ICU profile. MIMIC_Procedure_ICU enforces terminology bindings
for the procedure code, body site and category. The primary information mapped from procedureevents includes timing,
procedure codes, status and the procedure location.